scikits/statsmodels/docs/source/dev/roadmap_todo.rst, before:

Roadmap
=======

Pandas Integration
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* Make models able to take Pandas DataFrame/Panel (panelmod)
* Plotting (scikits.timeseries)
* Merge with scikits.timeseries?

Formula Framework
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Existing Discussions:

* `R-like formulas - 2-10-2010 <http://groups.google.com/group/pystatsmodels/browse_thread/thread/1f99c1e2a7d9c588/>`__ 
* `The Return of Formula (?) - 5-16-2010 <http://groups.google.com/group/pystatsmodels/browse_thread/thread/d3a32b834ce153d2/>`__
* `The Return of Formula: The Revenge: The Novel - 6-4-2010 <http://groups.google.com/group/pystatsmodels/browse_thread/thread/9636cb2f8a0d37cf/>`__

Existing Code:

 * `Jonathan Taylor's Formula Framework <https://github.com/statsmodels/statsmodels/blob/master/scikits/statsmodels/sandbox/formula.py>`__
   Explain me.
 * `Nathaniel Smith's Charlton <https://github.com/charlton>`__
   Explain me.

Statistics
^^^^^^^^^^

Bootstrapping, Jackknifing, Sampling framework.

Sandbox
^^^^^^^

.. _todo:

    Fill in upcoming goals.
    Make an Enhancement Proposal for Formulas
    Formulas integration with pandas?

Commit message:

DOC: Update link for JT's formula code. Formatting changes.

scikits/statsmodels/docs/source/dev/roadmap_todo.rst, after:

Roadmap
=======

Pandas Integration
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* Make models able to take Pandas DataFrame/Panel (panelmod)
* Plotting (scikits.timeseries)
* Merge with scikits.timeseries?

Formula Framework
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Existing Discussions:

* `R-like formulas - 2-10-2010 <http://groups.google.com/group/pystatsmodels/browse_thread/thread/1f99c1e2a7d9c588/>`__ 
* `The Return of Formula (?) - 5-16-2010 <http://groups.google.com/group/pystatsmodels/browse_thread/thread/d3a32b834ce153d2/>`__
* `The Return of Formula: The Revenge: The Novel - 6-4-2010 <http://groups.google.com/group/pystatsmodels/browse_thread/thread/9636cb2f8a0d37cf/>`__

Existing Code:

* `Jonathan Taylor's Formula <https://github.com/jonathan-taylor/formula>`__
   Explain me.
* `Nathaniel Smith's Charlton <https://github.com/charlton>`__
   Explain me.

Statistics
^^^^^^^^^^

Bootstrapping, Jackknifing, Re-sampling framework.

Sandbox
^^^^^^^

We currently have a large amount code in the sandbox. The medium term goal
is to move much of this to feature branches as it gets worked on and remove
the sandbox folder. Many of these models and functions are close to done, 
however, and we welcome any and all contributions to complete them, including
refactoring, documentation, and tests.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 4

   ../sandbox

.. _todo:

    Fill in upcoming goals.
    Make an Enhancement Proposal for Formulas
    Formulas integration with pandas?
